✏️  Initial draft of "Peanut Gallery" definition (#233)
tatianamac/selfdefined: 11ty/definitions/peanut-gallery.md

---

> title: Peanut Gallery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: peanut gallery
```

Reviewer: This is inconsistent throughout the site and totally my bad.

slug: peanut-gallery
flag:
  level: avoid
  text: Racist Term
defined: true
speech: noun
reading:
  - text: 'Is Peanut Gallery a racist term?'
    href: http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2015/03/origin-phrase-peanut-gallery/
  - text: 'Dictionary.com'
    href: https://www.dictionary.com/browse/peanut-gallery
alt_words:
  - disrupters
  - hecklers
---

> Used to refer to those giving unsolicited (and unvalued) advice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a group of people who are giving unsolicited (and unvalued) advice.
```

Reviewer: I try to ensure that the definition doesn't presume what the "thing" is, which is why I added "a group of people." I would also suggest adding a bit about the origins of the term up here instead of in issues.

An example of where we do this is here: [Boogaloo](https://www.selfdefined.app/definitions/boogaloo/)

## Issues

> Before microphones and opera glasses were common, balcony seats were the worst in the theater. In Vaudevill theaters, the term "Peanut Gallery" became a nickname for these seats where Black people were forced to sit. The least expensive snack served at the theatre would often be peanuts, which the patrons would be rumored to throw at the performers on stage to convey their disapproval. Phrases such as "no comments from the peanut gallery" or "quiet in the peanut gallery" are extensions of the name.

Reviewer: Tighten and move this section (up to the part "Phrases..." up. Leave the "phrases..." sentence here).

Add something like, "The term perpetuates and reinforces the historic silencing of Black voices and speaking of them in a pejorative nature."

> Before microphones and opera glasses were common, balcony seats were the worst in the theater. In Vaudevill theaters, the term "Peanut Gallery" became a nickname for these seats where Black people were forced to sit. The least expensive snack served at the theatre would often be peanuts, which the patrons would be rumored to throw at the performers on stage to convey their disapproval. Phrases such as "no comments from the peanut gallery" or "quiet in the peanut gallery" are extensions of the name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before microphones and opera glasses were common, balcony seats were the worst in the theater. In Vaudeville theaters, the term "peanut gallery" became a nickname for these seats where Black people were forced to sit. The least expensive snack served at the theatre would often be peanuts, which the patrons would be rumored to throw at the performers on stage to convey their disapproval. Phrases such as "no comments from the peanut gallery" or "quiet in the peanut gallery" are extensions of the name.
```

## Impact

> The phrase implies that the opinions expressed by those from the gallery were unsolicited, unwarranted and unhelpful, which then perpetrates that Black people's criticisms are irrelevant or insignificant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The phrase implies that the opinions expressed by those from the gallery were unsolicited, unwarranted and unhelpful, which then perpetrates that Black people's critiques are irrelevant or insignificant. This is particularly problematic when they are critiquing oppressive systems and their oppressors. Using such terms perpetuate the imbalance of power and the delegitimisation of their critiques.

By continuing the use of the term, rooted in its subordination to white power structures, regardless of whether we intend to carry its racist origins or not, we are contributing to the perpetuating of harm against Black people and their voices. Seemingly small actions like this contribute to the normalisation of the harm.

Denying the etymology or power of the word as irrelevant is denying the history of its strength: "Peanut gallery" has been used to dehumanise Black people and their voices, which leads to justify oppressing them or denying their rights.
```

## Usage Tip

> Be more specific. Typically we can find an alternate definition by taking time to think of a term that is not a historically anti-Black reference.

Reviewer: I'd suggest prepending here, "Consider context and the power you possess in an interaction. The term becomes even worse if you are using it in reference to a group of Black people and you are non-Black. You are carrying the historical power you have in your usage."

> Be more specific. Typically we can find an alternate definition by taking time to think of a term that is not a historically anti-Black reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be more specific. Typically we can find an alternate term by taking time to think of a term that is not a historically anti-Black reference.
```
